# Preaching Sunday Sept 1st

## Psalm 127: 1 - 5.

We can do all good kind oof things and not trust the Lord. Psalm 127. Unless the Lord buulds the house those who build it build it in vain... it is in vain eating the bread of anxious toil. CHildren are heritage of the Lord... Blessed...

There was anxiousness when it came to thinking what is going to becomen of the family. Carl Henry wrote, "we live in the decline of modern culture. Our generation is lost to the truth of God to the revelation of devine revelation. TO the power of revelation and to the power of his word." The growing anxiety of what is happening in our world increased over the last decades. We are still seeking to point our children and grandchildren to Jesus Christ. THink about the 18th century and the horrible practice of child slavery. Was this a good time to raise a family? Where children given an examole if how to treat others. I think you get the picture. We have a lot more information in our day than other generations but we still live in the same fallen world. We still live with the need for learning to depend on the lord. To truky live as those who know him in his redeeming love. Before the fullfillement of Jesus death and ressurection there were followerds who needed regular reminders to build theiur life on him, To trust him. They felt the pull of the fallen world.

This psalm, 120 - 134 are known as pilgrims psalms. THree times a year from all across the land the dicsipels would make their way to Jerusalem to celebrate the feasts. As they went they had their psalm book with them. It was these psalms they would read. They were a way to disciple themselves to trust the lord. Here were the pilgrims groaning nad learnign what it means to follow the lord. As they would sign these psalms they were considering their ambitions. They wehre trying to understandd what life should like in relationship to the lord. They thought just like us that everythingdeoended on their performance all that they an muster. They strenght, smarts, in the case of the psalm it deals with building a house and watching a city. The psalmist is thinking about the heart of existance in the issues of heart and family. How will the people in this pilgrimage secutea save life how do we really live a life that honors the lord. How do we stablish a family that by Gods grace oversees the Lord. We are worrying and fretful. This is the typical problem. Adam and eve where put in the garden. There are some things the work cannot accomplish. As hard as we try work cannot make us secure. As diligent as we are we cannot produce a godly family, We are uncapable of that. This psalm tells us to stop and evaluate and see the lird anbd see that life and family are not about us fur about the Lord., THey are not about our abilities. but about the Lord and his provinance. In this text

## We must learn to trust our Redeedem to build our lives and families for His glory not our ambitions.

## 1) A common misstep

look at the repetition of the words. "Unless, invain". He is pointing out errors that happen. For the Lord who builds and watches. He is the same one who rose from the death. These verses startle us at how easily we can slip into practical atheism. We call outselves Christians we slip. We go about our responsabilities, check boxes, but we depend on our selves not on the lord. To trust to Lord to save us and in resurrection also means to trust the lord to continue working o nthe details of life and our family. We expect God to save us but ourselves to take care of the rest. this is aitheism. If we had sins like drunkeness we could fall into pattersn and those are easily noticible as issues. However, what about things that are not easily spotted? In this versse sins are not easily spotted. He considers buulding a family. ANy thing wrong with this? No. However, unless the Lord builds the hosue those who labor do so in vain. We see this in Second Samuel 7. David talked to the prophet Nathan and said. Would you build me a house and wait. It is a good thing for us to listen to our families to want them to follow the Lord however we can plan and labor until we have no strenghjt left and we cannot do it with our energy. This is the Lords goal. Example, a family gets married and they have a child or not and they want to honor the Lord. So waht do they do they take their kids to church. THey do family devortions. Good thing. Bless the Lord. the parents want to model the chriustian life before their chidlren that is a good thing but does this guarantee that doing this the families will honor the lord? We can count on all the things we do to make thing peaceful, spiritual, but the psalmist says only the lord can do it. Unless the lord watched over the city. the watchman stays awake insane. Back then this is how they lived. Similar to us, we have doors, and policeman. But can this guarantee thaat evil will not happen? Remnemebr how the city of troy fell against the greeks. The trogian horse contained soldiers that conquered them. It is good to have doors, and officiers, but the psalmist says that is not enough. The lord must keep us secure. THE FIRST half is desired the second is strategy. This is when we think our energy or level of our output will cause our families to be built. We are eating hte bread of anxious toil. What the psalmit is doing is counseling against anxiousness and fear, instead of trusting the Lord. The Lords gift of restfulness. We think that if we can just do enough we can have a family and a home. If someone says do this or not. and we follow all the lists and we have to sevure all that we have. There are people with their prescribed home duties, and conversations, and things to do. ALl of those are good for harvesting a life that is in CHrist but in this a lot of legalists are produced. Instead of relying in the grace of God they rely upon themselves. The Lord did not save you for you to get away from the gospel. He saved you for you to live in the Gospel. This means that there is a process in which we learn to rely upon the Lord. We were invited to attend one of the conferences. There was a man without children laying down plans for what parents had to do. He placed a fear of failure. A bondage connected to the psyche of the man who participated in this mans teaching. The people who believed fell into checklists and rules and priciples. But this didnt work. The centrality of hte gospel was ,issong and when we leave focusing our lives. If we move away from this we lost sight of what God has planned on our lives there is only a system of legalismn.

## A Divine Pivot

Unless the Lord builds the house. There have been time when we only depended on our selves. We are learning to trust life listening on him. You do this hard work and you are getting this result. So we labor and toil thinking that what we do is going to bring us happiness in life. The psalmit says that unless the lord builds the hosue it is in vain. The only guarantee we have is the Lords faithfulness so we learn to trust God.

In order to pivot our ideas the first aspect is to see the Lords work. There is a disciple who bears the beardune of his family, he is trusting he has enough brain to get everything done, and at night he becomes anxois by bearing a burden that does not belong to him. We want to make sure that wre take care of everhything. In verse two it says. Why are you worried, he gives sleep to his beloved one. Dont you know God enjoys givign rest to those he loves. Firstly we dont control anything, we tried. With our family we might manipulate we might get angry we might make demands. We might squeeze them. We might do everything we can to control them and if we have success. We are learning to depend on the Lord.

We are not following a checklist or our own imagination or philosophy we are learning to rely on the Lord. The second thing is that the Lord who began a good work in us will continue it. He gives sleep to his beloeved. In our family it is the Lord who works to bring eveything about. What I have to come to terms with is that the Lord redeemed me so that in the details of being and husband and a father I can learn to trust him. He wants us to learn to rely on his sovereinty. Lets not become undone by the things that we hoped to happen not happened. If God is for us nobody can be against us. There is no void even with parenting for he gives to his beloved sleep. This song is about learning to trust the Lord alongside the relesness that we feel in our shoulder. The worrying the toil. In all of this we look at the generosity of the lord. In verse three there is a word, behold. Chldren are heritage from the Lord. For he gives to his beloved sleep. For babies cannot be born and sleeped but only GOd can open the womb. So in verse 3, children are not our achievement. Does this mean that every couple that wants to have children will have? No. but we learn to relay on the goodness and provision of Good in our family. If not the devine restrenght. THis might be seen as the devine providence of God. Whether we have many children or a house of not children we learn to trust the GOd gracefulness in our house. It is aboput him not about accomplishment, it is all about him. We see his generosity so how do we respond

## 3) A trusting rest:

Even in the middle of all of our hard activities and work we learn to trust in the Lord. Nothing is in our shoulders. We are learning that this is the call to take our treatfulness and anxiousness, it is taking the dicision making concerning our children and how we correct them. All of these things, we turn to daily dependance of the Lord. We learn that we are not ultimate in the development and future of our children. Some of you might need to because your children have made decisions that your children has made and you are grevied with it. He is teaching you to release that and trust in him. Rely on him. We are not ultimate in the development of them. When we release our grip to model and train and entrust them to the lord that becomes the pattern that we slowly make. Trusting the lord, and resting in him is not the same as pacivity. Trust is active. You are doing all the things the lord commands you to do and yet you are trusting him, Not trusting yourself. Trusting brings him to that parental activity. We learn Lord I know this is not me in my power this is in you. We trust his spirit to lead us. Yet we are still engaged. Modeling life for our children, doing all of this by Gods grace to the glory of christ by consciously dying to our ambitions. Learning to accept the wise providences of the Lord. So how do we prepare well when it comes to children. Verse 4, like arrows in the hand of a warrior are children. We learn to align our lives to God. The wildeness of the human nature must be tames by discipline that molds and refines. Parents must add ongoing instruction to the daily life of children. We are nurturing them in the things of the Lord but we cannot save them. However, we point them to the one who can. Every parent must be a teacher. You got to be a teacher your dad your mom. You got to be involved in teaching eveyrhting purity, morals, but overall teaching them about the gospel of GOd. Don't manipulate your children. Give them a daily vision. To enjoiy GOd. for this we need aim. Just like the arrows. They need to see that we glorify God through our relationship to JEsus Christ. they ned to see that and hear that from us. IF we dont direct them like arrows the world will dirrect them. We need to put the ribght arrow about glorifying God in our life. You can model it. You can discipline them concerning the right issues. You can study and shape the contours of their personalities. You cannot save them. Let them be shaped by CHrist, by his beauty and glory and holiness. Model and teach and point them to them. The second thing that we are messuring is hitting the target. We are trying to send our children out to the line so that they may be leanign for GOds glory. In other words having children as Gods gifts... THis does not suggest that we are goign to struggle. The greater their promise the more likely this sons will be a handful. When we are fearful, we are learning to trust the lord. We pray that they may know Christ to repentance. They are thought to live with mercy for them. To model what is necessary for them to live with Christ. Children come to fruition when we realize they are gifts of the lord and we train them for the short period we have to release them for greater usefulness. Amidst the days of parenting we are learning to train the lord. That unless the lord builds the house, and watches the city the watchman keeps away in vain. Unless the lord sends out the arrows we cannot control them, Our sanctificatio ngets sharpened in this period.

If you have been a practical athiest but depend on yourself ask the lord, to teach you to trust him.
