# John Chapter 10: 20 - 42

## Introduction

I was looking online and I found this statistic I thought was crazy but is true. We on average make 35,000 decisions a day. Many are regular things that you don't realize when to brush your teeth or what socks to put on. Some are trivial. Others are more important like what to eat. I remeber when schools began to inforce uniforms in the students. Dicision making is hard and taxing. It is true that we have 35,000 decisions a day. Imagine how many in the year? I say this to acknowledge that out of all the decisions we make in our life there is one decision that triumphs all others. How do you respond to Jesus Christ? How do you respond to his claims. You either pick up stones or you follow him (end of passage). The most important decision in your life is to believe that he is who he says he is. If uou believe in him trust in him that you may have life. I put this before you because the text is expolicit on the decision making on who Jesus is. People have made decisions.

1. **Verse 24** How much longer will you keep us in suspense
2. **Verse 32** They made a decision to stone him for blasphemy.

## Main Idea :

    The good works of Christ reveal that he is the son of God.

In the figure of speach He says he is the good shepard. He lays down his life for his sheep and he takes it back up again. We will see today that his sheep know his voice and they follow him. In the end there will be one sheepfold and one shepard. Even though this is a figure of speach He syas enough to put into display his diety. Enough for them to think, this man is crazy. In verse 22 this continues. It speaks about the feast of dedication and that is winter. This is also known as Hanukkah.

I want to divide this passage into four parts.

### 1) The good works of Jesus incite hostility against Him (10:23 - 23; 31)

They approach him like bullies, in a mob. They wanted to arrest him becuase he was working on the sabbath. On chapter 7, they tried to kill him, arrest him, lay hands on him. They have picked up stones to execute their justice against Jesus. They were being hostile against Jesus because he was dismantling their apparatus. They were not happy with this messiah. They were looking for a political Hero would free them from Rome. Think on how eveyrhing that Jesus was doing thretens thjeir identity as sadduces and jews. In chapter one if you remeber what is Johns message? This is the lamb who takes away the sins of the world. In chapter one he is the bridgemgroiom. In chapter 4 he is the savior of the world. In chapter 5 he is the one that owkrs in the day of rest. He works because the father in Heaven is working. In chapter 10 what he is saying is **"I am the God of Psalm 23"**. So how do we respond to him? If you don't know the king of the universe Jesus his way and surrender under his authority you are just one who ius hotile against him. Because the naiutral man is against the Lord. For the mind that isset on the flesh is hostile to God,. When we set ourselves up, we are the one driving. When we just live our lifes in our thoughts in iur judgmenet without the wisdom of God autiomatically our posture is one of hostility. It is a posture that recoikds when it faces the truth of GOd. That is because God is holy and we are not. Whenever our fklesh is confroronted with the holiness of God it is terridying. Ask isiah,[ezequiel, john]. The sinless man, the new adam. In John chapter 19 he tabernacled among us and they knew him not .Wheneger those thigs collide there is hostility. The fear. We lock our doors. we up cameras, we ghave passwords in e very device. We also arm ourselves. A God who exposes our wickedness. Imagine Jesus showing up and flipping everything upside down that for a thouysand years they thought was true. Even to this day Jesus can be talked about.

Perhphaphs there are some here who are religious who were invited for a while. You are not willing to speak of Jesus its terrifying to speak about everything that reveals yoiur wickedness. You are part of the same team hostile against God.

### 2) The good works of Jesus reveal His sovereing grace (25 - 30)

Consider the miracles Jesus performed, the healing of the blindman. Yet they fall back to the hostility they want a messiah of their liking not za suffering servant,. They wnt a political hero. The issue is not eveidence or intelect the issue is a problem of the heart a proble,m of misplaced worship. That is why I am not a fan of apologetics in the sense that if your purpose is to only prove Jesus existed and therefore you should believe that is not evidence for some to believe. The years in the 40 years saw gods grace, mana, water from rocks, yet they still preffered being slaved. Why cant they believe. Why cant others believe Jesus?

**Verse 26** you cannot believe because you are not my sheep. There is something here in the doctrine of election, That is why Jesus;s works fall on blind eyes. The reason why you cannot understand is because you are not my sheep. They are not his sheep. This is a good moment to meditate what does it mean to be a sheep?

**Verse 27** my sheep hear my voice and I know them and they follow me.

There is a call to salvation, there is an ilumination that happens when he calls. His sheep his children hear his voice. that is not an audible voice that is a revelation o f who Jesus is the revelation is received transformed there is a sprititual awakening that happenes os that they can recognizxe the cvoice of the shepard. Whoever is of God hear the words of God. Those who the father gave to the son, they are awakened the call hear his voice, without that calling without the hearing if the voice it is impossible to understand, You have beeter chances to teach you dog to sit than to convience one who isnt part of the sheepfold to trust in Jesus. Something beautiful about this soverieign grace not only is there n effective calling but an intimate relationship. He says He knows them.Nothing is outside of the soverienty of God. Wjhen he says I know them, there is great intimacy and affection I know them. This is like a husband knowing his wife. We live in a world where everyone wants to be knwon, You want to go to places where you go and others know your name. Man wants to be known in intimate ways, If He knows your name if he knows you intimately. If no one else knows you recognizes you sees you again what more can we ask for an need? For those whoi have bit veen kbniwn who do not know his voice can never be content by jbiwubg Hesys, tge kibg kufe oyrsyut tge craziness if trying to find satisfaction because Jesus is not enough.

When Jesus says they follow me there is a never ending perpetual line following Jesus. That doesnt mean that we dont have to redirect because we go of the road.

Remember when Jesus was speaking to a mass of followers and everyone left except the 12. Jesus asked peter are you also going to go? Peter said "to whom shall we go? You have the words of life". To follow Jesus is to avide in his word.

In the high priestly prayer he says, father sanctify them iun your truth because your voice is truth. They hunger and thirst for righteousness. They respond to love and kindness. We cannot know God apart from his world. We live in a world where peopel are looking for that enxeprience, that tangible experience, I need something to validate something to stir me up and make sense of my affections, all kinds of ways to be religious. Apart from Gods word you cannot know God. You want to know God open youyr bible. You want your children to know God open your bible with your children, The sheep follow the mastet the shepard and their words/works so we can understand how does he heal us, is at work in us, protecting us, guiding us. We know it through is wirkd. Because the hseepo follow they submit to him and act on the revealed work of God.

**Verse 28** I give them eternal life and no one can snatch them from my hands...

Jesus gives his sheep eternal life it is not earned it is received, THey shall never perished because they have received eternal life and that life is ours now if we are sheep. He also says no one snatch them out of Jesus's hands. The reason he says the father and I are one is because he says no one can snatch them out of my hands. Noi thief, no wolf, no enemy. That does not mean you wont have trouble in this lufe byt what that means is that nothing can ever separate us from the love of Jesus. Jesus and the father, the triune God who has saved us is at an intermission with us. As we follow jesus. Don't count on your grip. Your grip is weak. Here is what we need to know about the grip of Jesus his sovereign grace tells us that him holding us will never change. That is why our salavation is in heaven. It is kept by God. if it is kept by us we will lose it. We are secure in him. And he is never anxious about it.

### 3) The good works of Jesus expose the biased ignorance in men (31 - 39)

Jesus address them. What the peopel are saying is that we are going to stone you. The people tell Jesus he is blapheming. Jesus uses Psalm 82, were past leaders called themselves gods with a little g. Why where they not offended by them? Mere humans who die. How can they be offended when Jesus calls himself God through the works He shows.

The problem was not that Jesus needed more miracles. The problem was their heart posture. The worst thing you can do is live by your own opinions. To think you know who Jesus is outside the word of God, that exposes our ignorance. What I am saying is that your piety or holiness does not make you right with God. Your good works, your piety your efforts to stablish your life to defend your life, It onbly proves how ignorant and lost you are. You might not realize that you will when you see your maker,. This reveals the sovereiugn grace of God.

### 4) Proclaiming the good works of Jesus will lead people to believe in Him (41)

John had no signs, but everything john said about this man was true. At the beginning of the passage the peole wanbted evidence. Now Jesus says all the evidences are great but you bneed to believe the testimony. The truth of the Gospel. They decided to pic up stones and to execute him, to arrest him. In verses 39 - 40, they caused Jesus to retreat to where John the baptist was preaching. There was no need for a sign for a miracle, all that was needed was the testimony of the truth through the mouth of John and many believed. Nothing is more powerful than the truth the turth of who Jesus is when you believe it is sets uso free it removes the hostility between us. When God irevealing hismelf to us so we can become his followerds it happened to through proiblcamation fo the truth he was an mazing preacher of truth, we live in a world where everyone is trying to fidn the experience whaty I am sayign is that what everyoen needs is the truth because it is sufffdicient enough for us to know God. Share the truth preach the truth. Proclaim it htrough words and deeds. It is piowerful enoug hto do the work it can only do in the hearts of man. None will be lost. All fot the sake of Gods glory.

Folks, go out with this, the good works of Jesus and the father dive deep the rest of your days to discover what those works are. Who He is. He was treated like a criminal nailed to a tree so we would through faith alone believe there is no condenmation. Lets pray.
